DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide - Aakash Misal House

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for deploying the Aakash Misal House restaurant website to Vercel.

## Prerequisites

- GitHub repository: https://github.com/SandeshKhilari01/aakashmisalhouse
- Vercel account (sign up at https://vercel.com)
- SendGrid API key for email functionality

## Required Environment Variables

The following environment variables must be configured in your Vercel project settings:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `SENDGRID_API_KEY` | SendGrid API key for email sending | `SG.xxxxxxxxxxxxx` |
| `MAIL_FROM` | Sender email address | `tech.avinyaa@gmail.com` |
| `MAIL_TO` | Recipient email address for contact form | `sndsh.khilari@gmail.com` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TINA_CLIENT_ID` | (Optional) Tina CMS client ID | Leave empty if not using |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_ORGANIZATION_NAME` | (Optional) Tina organization name | Leave empty if not using |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_EDIT_BRANCH` | Git branch for CMS edits | `"master"` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_LOCAL_CLIENT` | Use local CMS client | `""` (empty) |

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Push Code to GitHub

Ensure all your latest changes are pushed to GitHub:

```bash
cd /Users/sandeshsonabakhilari/Desktop/aakashmisalhouse
git add .
git commit -m "Prepare for deployment"
git push origin main
```

### 2. Import Project to Vercel

1. Go to https://vercel.com/new
2. Click "Import Git Repository"
3. Select your GitHub account and repository: `SandeshKhilari01/aakashmisalhouse`
4. Click "Import"

### 3. Configure Project Settings

Vercel should auto-detect Next.js. Verify the following settings:

- **Framework Preset**: Next.js
- **Build Command**: `next build` (default)
- **Output Directory**: `.next` (default)
- **Install Command**: `npm install` (default)

### 4. Add Environment Variables

In the Vercel project configuration:

1. Navigate to "Environment Variables" section
2. Add each variable from the table above
3. Set the appropriate values (use your actual SendGrid API key)
4. Select environment: **Production**, **Preview**, and **Development** (check all three)

**Important**: Do NOT commit `.env.local` to git. The `.gitignore` file already excludes it.

### 5. Deploy

1. Click "Deploy"
2. Wait for the build to complete (usually 1-3 minutes)
3. Once deployed, you'll receive a production URL (e.g., `https://aakashmisalhouse.vercel.app`)

## Post-Deployment Verification

After deployment, verify the following:

### Automated Checks
- [ ] Site loads successfully at the Vercel URL
- [ ] All pages are accessible (Home, About, Menu, Gallery, Contact)
- [ ] No console errors in browser developer tools
- [ ] Images load correctly

### Manual Testing
- [ ] Test contact form submission
- [ ] Verify email is received at `MAIL_TO` address
- [ ] Check responsive design on mobile devices
- [ ] Test "Get Directions" and "Call Now" buttons
- [ ] Verify dark mode toggle works
- [ ] Test navigation between pages

## Custom Domain Setup (Optional)

To use a custom domain:

1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to "Settings" → "Domains"
3. Add your custom domain (e.g., `aakashmisalhouse.com`)
4. Follow Vercel's instructions to configure DNS records
5. Wait for DNS propagation (can take 24-48 hours)

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails

**Problem**: Build fails with module errors
**Solution**: 
- Check that all dependencies are in `package.json`
- Verify Node.js version compatibility (Next.js 12.1.0 requires Node 12.22.0+)
- Check build logs in Vercel dashboard for specific errors

### Environment Variables Not Working

**Problem**: Contact form not sending emails
**Solution**:
- Verify `SENDGRID_API_KEY` is correctly set in Vercel
- Check that the API key has permissions to send emails
- Verify `MAIL_FROM` is a verified sender in SendGrid

### Images Not Loading

**Problem**: Images return 404 errors
**Solution**:
- Ensure all images are in the `/public` directory
- Check that image paths in code don't include `/public` prefix
- Verify `next.config.js` image configuration

### TypeScript Errors

**Problem**: Build fails with TypeScript errors
**Solution**:
- Run `npm run lint` locally to identify errors
- Fix TypeScript issues before deployment
- Ensure `tsconfig.json` is properly configured

## Redeployment

Vercel automatically redeploys when you push to the `main` branch:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Update website content"
git push origin main
```

Vercel will detect the push and trigger a new deployment automatically.

## Support

For issues specific to:
- **Vercel Platform**: https://vercel.com/support
- **Next.js Framework**: https://nextjs.org/docs
- **SendGrid Email**: https://docs.sendgrid.com

## Production URL

After deployment, your site will be available at:
- **Vercel URL**: `https://aakashmisalhouse.vercel.app` (or similar)
- **Custom Domain**: (if configured)

---

**Last Updated**: February 4, 2026

Commit message:

Update deployment config: Make SendGrid optional, contact form works in mock mode

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide - Aakash Misal House

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for deploying the Aakash Misal House restaurant website to Vercel.

## Prerequisites

- GitHub repository: https://github.com/SandeshKhilari01/aakashmisalhouse
- Vercel account (sign up at https://vercel.com)

## Environment Variables

**Good News**: No environment variables are required! The site will work without any configuration.

### Optional Environment Variables

If you want to enable specific features, you can configure these in your Vercel project settings:

| Variable | Description | When Needed | Example |
|----------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `SENDGRID_API_KEY` | SendGrid API key for email sending | Only if you want the contact form to actually send emails. Without this, the form works but emails won't be sent. | `SG.xxxxxxxxxxxxx` |
| `MAIL_FROM` | Sender email address | Only needed with SendGrid | `tech.avinyaa@gmail.com` |
| `MAIL_TO` | Recipient email address for contact form | Only needed with SendGrid | `sndsh.khilari@gmail.com` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TINA_CLIENT_ID` | Tina CMS client ID | Only if using Tina CMS | Leave empty |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_ORGANIZATION_NAME` | Tina organization name | Only if using Tina CMS | Leave empty |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_EDIT_BRANCH` | Git branch for CMS edits | Only if using Tina CMS | `"master"` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_LOCAL_CLIENT` | Use local CMS client | Only if using Tina CMS | `""` (empty) |

> [!NOTE]
> **Contact Form Behavior**: The contact form will display and function normally even without SendGrid configured. Form submissions will appear successful to users, but no actual emails will be sent. This is perfect for testing or if you don't need email functionality.

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Push Code to GitHub

Ensure all your latest changes are pushed to GitHub:

```bash
cd /Users/sandeshsonabakhilari/Desktop/aakashmisalhouse
git add .
git commit -m "Prepare for deployment"
git push origin main
```

### 2. Import Project to Vercel

1. Go to https://vercel.com/new
2. Click "Import Git Repository"
3. Select your GitHub account and repository: `SandeshKhilari01/aakashmisalhouse`
4. Click "Import"

### 3. Configure Project Settings

Vercel should auto-detect Next.js. Verify the following settings:

- **Framework Preset**: Next.js
- **Build Command**: `next build` (default)
- **Output Directory**: `.next` (default)
- **Install Command**: `npm install` (default)

### 4. Deploy (No Environment Variables Needed!)

1. Click "Deploy"
2. Wait for the build to complete (usually 1-3 minutes)
3. Once deployed, you'll receive a production URL (e.g., `https://aakashmisalhouse.vercel.app`)

## Post-Deployment Verification

After deployment, verify the following:

### Automated Checks
- [ ] Site loads successfully at the Vercel URL
- [ ] All pages are accessible (Home, About, Menu, Gallery, Contact)
- [ ] No console errors in browser developer tools
- [ ] Images load correctly

### Manual Testing
- [ ] Test contact form submission
- [ ] Verify email is received at `MAIL_TO` address
- [ ] Check responsive design on mobile devices
- [ ] Test "Get Directions" and "Call Now" buttons
- [ ] Verify dark mode toggle works
- [ ] Test navigation between pages

## Custom Domain Setup (Optional)

To use a custom domain:

1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to "Settings" → "Domains"
3. Add your custom domain (e.g., `aakashmisalhouse.com`)
4. Follow Vercel's instructions to configure DNS records
5. Wait for DNS propagation (can take 24-48 hours)

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails

**Problem**: Build fails with module errors
**Solution**: 
- Check that all dependencies are in `package.json`
- Verify Node.js version compatibility (Next.js 12.1.0 requires Node 12.22.0+)
- Check build logs in Vercel dashboard for specific errors

### Environment Variables Not Working

**Problem**: Contact form not sending emails
**Solution**:
- Verify `SENDGRID_API_KEY` is correctly set in Vercel
- Check that the API key has permissions to send emails
- Verify `MAIL_FROM` is a verified sender in SendGrid

### Images Not Loading

**Problem**: Images return 404 errors
**Solution**:
- Ensure all images are in the `/public` directory
- Check that image paths in code don't include `/public` prefix
- Verify `next.config.js` image configuration

### TypeScript Errors

**Problem**: Build fails with TypeScript errors
**Solution**:
- Run `npm run lint` locally to identify errors
- Fix TypeScript issues before deployment
- Ensure `tsconfig.json` is properly configured

## Redeployment

Vercel automatically redeploys when you push to the `main` branch:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Update website content"
git push origin main
```

Vercel will detect the push and trigger a new deployment automatically.

## Support

For issues specific to:
- **Vercel Platform**: https://vercel.com/support
- **Next.js Framework**: https://nextjs.org/docs
- **SendGrid Email**: https://docs.sendgrid.com

## Production URL

After deployment, your site will be available at:
- **Vercel URL**: `https://aakashmisalhouse.vercel.app` (or similar)
- **Custom Domain**: (if configured)

---

**Last Updated**: February 4, 2026
